Lab Report for Final Project (Match-3)
Author: Kat Herring & Mara Staines

From the user's perspective, when the program opens a game board is 
automatically generated. Instructions and the current score display on the right
side of the board. If the user clicks two tiles which are not adjacent, a 
swap will not be made. If the user attempts to swap two adjacent tiles that 
do not create a three-in-a-row match, "Not a match" will be displayed in the 
command line and a swap will not be made. If the user swaps two adjacent 
tiles that do form a match when swapped, then the tiles will swap and will 
be cleared from the board, adding 50 points to the user's score. Tiles above 
the first one will "fall" down and if that creates any matches, those will 
be cleared and added to the score as well. If the user is unable to find any 
matches, pressing "s" will shuffle the board at the expense of 200 points. 
When the user reaches 3000 points, the message "You win!" is displayed 
multiple times and the program terminates.

From the programmer's perspective, the program begins with a .h file which 
includes gfx5 and other needed libraries as well as setting up the struct 
"Jewel" (contains a type 0-5 and the x, y coordates of its top corner in the window) and prototypes for the functions. From there, main begins, opening 
the screen and initializing the board using "initBoard", which seeds a 
random number generate and calls initJewel to randomly assigns a "type" to 
each jewel in the 8x8 array of jewels initialized in main and store the x 
and y coordinates of the top left corner of the jewel. After this is done, 
validBoard is called to test if the board is valid (if it does not already contain 
three-in-a-row matches). validBoard returns 1 if no matches are found and 
zero otherwise after checking using nested for loop and if statements. A 
while loop is entered until validBoard returns 1, calling "removeMatch" 
between each check. removeMatch takes an input of the array and uses nested 
for loops and if statements to first find a three-in-a-row match, and then 
modify the central jewel of the three-in-a-row match by subtracting one from 
the type (or setting it to five if the type is already zero).

Once a valid initial board is found, the functions drawOutline and drawBoard 
are called. drawOutline takes an input of a pointer to the score and draws a 
border around the gameboard as well as displaying the current score and 
instructions. drawOutline calls drawName and drawNameOutline, which use 
gfx_rectangle and gfx_fill_rectangle to draw the title of the game (Match-3).


From there, gameplay begins and the program will continue until the user 
either presses 'q' or wins.

For gameplay, if the user presses 's', a shuffle is performed by initializing a new board as described above. This subtracts 200 points, unless the score is less than 200, at which point the score is set to 0. If the user clicks, click to jewel converts the pixel location to an array location, and the program detects whether a previous click was made. If a previous click was made, these tiles are checked for adjacency. If they are adjacent, they are swapped by switching their types, and the new board is tested for matches. If the swap created a match, dropFill will run. Otherwise the types of the jewels are swapped back and the loop starts again. DropFill finds all matches, sets the type of these matches to 6 (representing blank), adds 50 to the score per match, and shifts the types of jewels downward to fill the type 6 spaces as if the jewels were falling. If the user presses 'q', the game ends. 

To test the program, we tested each function individually. Printfs were used 
to ensure that data was being stored and modified correctly in variables and 
array. After each modification, the program was run and checked for correct 
responses to "illegal" (clicking outside the gameboard, attempting to swap 
two adjacent tiles) and legal moves. We had several people test the game by 
playing it in order to find glitches or confusing outputs (for example, the 
squares flashing yellow after a match has been made before the board is 
adjusted to make it more obvious what the program is doing was added as a 
result of this input).